Alright, in this module we are going to
go in and refactor our little
application or demo application
here to use the Spring Boot
application.properties file. Now this is the
default properties file that is utilized
by Spring Boot. I'm showing the other
examples because I want you to see which you
probably see in legacy applications. If
you started off with the pure Spring
Boot application, chances are, you're
going to be utilising application.properties
and it's a pretty easy
refactor. We're going to refactor things
into it. Typically you're going to be
using this to set Spring Boot specific
properties that Spring is configured for
components but in our example here, we
can also set our own custom properties
inside of it. So that's very important
distinction. You are welcome to put
whatever properties you need in this
file in addition to all the Spring Boot
stuff .So I'm going to toggle over to
IntelliJ now and show you how to
refactor. So we're going to undo the
stuff that we did for the properties
files and move that configuration into
the Spring Boot application.properties file. Alright I got our
application up here and what I'm going
to do is refactor it to use the
application.properties file and that
is the default application properties or
the default properties file that is used
by Spring Boot that is automatically
wired up for us. So I'm going to go in
and get rid of some of the configuration.
So I'm going to remove this PropertySources. Now as you know that it's there
it's something that you can refer to if
you need to source in another properties
file. But for this exercise, I'm going to
remove this and we'll start utilising
the Spring Boot application.properties file which is automatically
brought in by Spring Boot. So I'm going
to get rid of that and I'm going to
remove these Environment since we're not
using that anymore and we'll go back to
using the guru. username and we need to
get rid of this environment here. Now
that makes that piece happy
and what we can do is come in to our
resources. I'll start off with a datasource actually.
I'm going to cut that out of there and
I'm going to put it into applications.properties
and I want to point out,
as I'm doing this application.properties
is used for all kinds of
Spring Boot configuration settings. It's
quite a few options that we can set in
there but you can also add in your own
properties and you can see that IntelliJ
is not happy about because it's not
recognising that it's a custom property. So if I come in here, you can see some of
the different things that we can be
setting in here. So these are all Spring
Boot properties that can be set in. There's actually many many more than this.
So it's quite a suite of
properties and IntelliJ is giving us a
warning that, hey I don't recognise that
and the application.properties is
where you're typically going to be
overwriting Spring Boot values but in
this example, we have some custom values
that we want. And now I'm going to go
ahead and run this and just to show you
my datasource is empty, my jms is empty,
any PropertyConfig, actually I can get
rid of the PropertySourcesPlaceholderConfigure.
So we're going to
lose him as well and now we're going
to run this and see that these
properties are getting picked up out of
the application.properties file by
SpringBoot. So you can see that I'm
getting the username of John and JMS user
and when we look at the application.properties,
we'll see that there's John and JMS
Username. So this is a handy way. If
you're using Spring Boot, chances
are, this is where you're going to be
defining your properties. I showed you
the property files examples before
because you might be encountering legacy
applications and you'll be defining your
properties there and other property
files but if you started a project that
is a pure Spring Boot project, chances
are you're going to be wanting to use
the application.properties file. Alright that was a pretty simple refactor.
Not too much going on there but just
remember that application.properties
file is available there by default when
you're using
Spring Boot and I moved our custom
properties in there. Some people like to
keep things separate but I am okay with
mixing and matching. So I don't think
that the Spring Boot specific properties
are that special where you need to move
them into their own properties file or circumvent them somehow. So when
I'm doing a pure Spring Boot Application,
I'm putting my configuration values
inside of the application.properties
file and not a custom properties file.